## User-Authentication-With-Security-Logs

### **Python Project Overview** 💻

The User Authentication System with Security Logs is a web application developed using Streamlit, a popular Python framework for creating data applications. The application provides secure user management capabilities including user registration, login, password reset, and account recovery. It utilizes an SQLite database to manage user data and security logs. The system is designed to be intuitive for end-users while offering robust security features like hashed passwords and event logging.

*****

### **Features** ⚙️
- **User Registration**: Allows new users to create an account by providing a username, email, and password.
- **Login System**: Supports user authentication to verify identity and grant access to secured areas.
- **Password Recovery**: Includes a mechanism for users to recover and reset their passwords in case they forget them.
- **Security Logging**: Logs all security-related events, including user logins, logouts, and password changes, providing an audit trail for compliance and security monitoring.
Password Reset: Users can change their passwords through a secure interface.

*****

### **Technology Stack** 📟
- **Python**: The core programming language used for backend development.
- **Streamlit**: A Python library for creating and sharing beautiful, custom web apps for machine learning and data science.
- **SQLite**: A C-language library that implements a small, fast, self-contained, high-reliability, full-featured SQL database engine.
- **Hashlib**: For secure hashing of passwords using SHA-256.

*****

## **Installation**
To run this application, you will need Python installed on your system.

### **Cloning the Repository**
First, clone the repository to your local machine:
```
git clone https://github.com/Anonymous-CodeZ/User-Authentication-With-Security-Logs.git
```

### **Installing Dependencies**
Install the required Python libraries:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### **Setting Up Sender Email**
Inside the `email_request.py`, modify the **sender_email** and **sender_password** variables to set up the verification feature of this app.
- **sender_email** : The email address which will be used to send verification codes
- **sender_password** : The Gmail App Password of the email account

**To get Gmail App Password:**
> Go to google Account -> Enable 2FA -> App Password -> Create new App Password
An App password generated by google should look something like this **"alsl eooq appq sicw"**
Remove the spaces and pass them to the **sender_password** variable

### **Setting Up Table Plus To View Real Time Data**
> Install Table Plus from the official website -> Make a connection towards the directory database file `database.db` which will be created automatically after running `streamlit run main.py`

### **Usage**
To run the application:
```
streamlit run main.py
```
This will start the server, and you should be able to access the application by navigating to **http://localhost:8501** in your web browser.

*****

### **Project Structure**
```
|-- main.py             #Main application script with Streamlit UI and DB Logics
|-- email_request.py    # Module to handle email sending Logics
|-- data                
|   |-- database.db     # SQLite database file
|-- requirements.txt    # Python Dependencies file
```

### **Contributing** 🤝
Contributions to this project are welcome. Please follow the standard fork-pull request workflow. Make sure your code adheres to the existing style, and update or add tests as necessary.

### **Author**
- Savakroth LEAV - `https://github.com/Anonymous-CodeZ`

### **Acknowledgments** 🎓
Hats off to:
```
- https://github.com/Frost-Codes
- https://github.com/GauriSP10
```
For Inspiring this Project
